{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18740\viewh13700\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Iterations for Tranzistor\

\b0 \ulnone \

\b Iteration:
\b0  Virtual Radio iOS Version 1.6\

\b Timing:
\b0  Submission to app store end of June 2012\

\b Description:
\b0  Fix problems of version 1.5: \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}UI component UITableView is used incorrectly: you start playback by clicking on a table cell. Use a real button instead. One that says play (not an icon).\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}App does not respond to player remote control properly, even though it signals on the status bar that it is remote-aware. This is partly fixed already, but might require more work. \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}We use our own tabs in a different place and with slightly different look and behavior than Apple's. Consider using a UITabBar at the bottom instead. Depends on user feedback.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Notification at the bottom-right. Explore notification schemes and find one that is more Apple-style.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Follow up on bugs, complaints, crash reports.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}More/better communication to the user warning about network usage. Maybe add options allowing a maximum bandwidth when using cell data.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Proper help page or FAQ, either link to webpage, incorporated webpage, or custom UI.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 The next version of Virtual Radio should support UPnP. It should be possible to discover Virtual Radio running on an iOS device on the WD box or on another UPnP node. \
 \
}